.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _release/0.10.x:

=============
0.10.x Branch
=============

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:

.. _release/0.10.x/upgrade:

Upgrade Notes
=============

.. warning::
    :ref:`release/0.10.2` contains important security fixes. Previous `0.10.x`
    releases are not recommended for regular usage.

Modular Configuration Directories
---------------------------------

CouchDB now loads configuration from the following places (`glob(7)`_ syntax)
in order:

- PREFIX/default.ini
- PREFIX/default.d/*
- PREFIX/local.ini
- PREFIX/local.d/*

The configuration options for `couchdb` script have changed to::

  -a FILE     add configuration FILE to chain
  -A DIR      add configuration DIR to chain
  -n          reset configuration file chain (including system default)
  -c          print configuration file chain and exit

.. _glob(7): http://linux.die.net/man/7/glob

Show and List API change
------------------------

Show and List functions must have a new structure in 0.10.
See `Formatting_with_Show_and_List`_ for details.

.. _Formatting_with_Show_and_List: http://wiki.apache.org/couchdb/Formatting_with_Show_and_List

Stricter enforcing of reduciness in reduce-functions
----------------------------------------------------

Reduce functions are now required to reduce the number of values for a key.

View query reduce parameter strictness
--------------------------------------

CouchDB now considers the parameter ``reduce=false`` to be an error for queries
of map-only views, and responds with status code 400.

.. _release/0.10.2:

Version 0.10.2
==============

Build and System Integration
----------------------------

* Fixed distribution preparation for building on Mac OS X.

Security
--------

* Fixed :ref:`cve/2010-0009`

Replicator
----------

* Avoid leaking file descriptors on automatic replication restarts.

.. _release/0.10.1:

Version 0.10.1
==============

Build and System Integration
----------------------------

* Test suite now works with the distcheck target.

Replicator
----------

* Stability enhancements regarding redirects, timeouts, OAuth.

Query Server
------------

* Avoid process leaks
* Allow list and view to span languages

Stats
-----

* Eliminate new process flood on system wake

.. _release/0.10.0:

Version 0.10.0
==============

Build and System Integration
----------------------------

* Changed `couchdb` script configuration options.
* Added default.d and local.d configuration directories to load sequence.

HTTP Interface
--------------

* Added optional cookie-based authentication handler.
* Added optional two-legged OAuth authentication handler.

Storage Format
--------------

* Add move headers with checksums to the end of database files for extra robust
  storage and faster storage.

View Server
-----------

* Added native Erlang views for high-performance applications.
