.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _cve/2018-17188:

===========================================================
CVE-2018-17188: Apache CouchDB Remote Privilege Escalations
===========================================================

:Date: 17.12.2018

:Affected: All Versions of Apache CouchDB

:Severity: Medium

:Vendor: The Apache Software Foundation

Description
===========

Prior to CouchDB version 2.3.0, CouchDB allowed for runtime-configuration of key
components of the database. In some cases, this lead to vulnerabilities where
CouchDB admin users could access the underlying operating system as the CouchDB
user. Together with other vulnerabilities, it allowed full system entry for
unauthenticated users.

These vulnerabilities were fixed and disclosed in the following CVE reports:

- :ref:`CVE-2018-11769: Apache CouchDB Remote Code Execution <cve/2018-11769>`
- :ref:`CVE-2018-8007: Apache CouchDB Remote Code Execution <cve/2018-8007>`
- :ref:`CVE-2017-12636: Apache CouchDB Remote Code Execution <cve/2017-12636>`
- :ref:`CVE-2017-12635: Apache CouchDB Remote Privilege Escalation <cve/2017-12635>`

Rather than waiting for new vulnerabilities to be discovered, and fixing them
as they come up, the CouchDB development team decided to make changes to avoid
this entire class of vulnerabilities.

With CouchDB version 2.3.0, CouchDB no longer can configure key components at
runtime. While some flexibility is needed for speciality configurations of
CouchDB, the configuration was changed from being available at runtime to
start-up time. And as such now requires shell access to the CouchDB server.

This closes all future paths for vulnerabilities of this type.

Mitigation
==========

All users should upgrade to CouchDB :ref:`2.3.0 <release/2.3.0>`.

Upgrades from previous 2.x versions in the same series should be
seamless.

Users on earlier versions should consult with upgrade notes.

Credit
======

This issue was discovered by the Apple Information Security team.
