.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.


.. _release/0.10.x:

0.10.x Branch
=============

.. contents::
   :depth: 1
   :local:


.. _release/0.10.2:

Version 0.10.2
--------------

Build and System Integration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Fixed distribution preparation for building on Mac OS X.

Security
^^^^^^^^

* Fixed CVE-2010-0009: Apache CouchDB Timing Attack Vulnerability

Replicator
^^^^^^^^^^

* Avoid leaking file descriptors on automatic replication restarts.


.. _release/0.10.1:

Version 0.10.1
--------------

Build and System Integration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Test suite now works with the distcheck target.

Replicator
^^^^^^^^^^

* Stability enhancements regarding redirects, timeouts, OAuth.

Query Server
^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Avoid process leaks
* Allow list and view to span languages

Stats
^^^^^

* Eliminate new process flood on system wake


.. _release/0.10.0:

Version 0.10.0
--------------

Build and System Integration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Changed `couchdb` script configuration options.
* Added default.d and local.d configuration directories to load sequence.

HTTP Interface
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Added optional cookie-based authentication handler.
* Added optional two-legged OAuth authentication handler.

Storage Format
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Add move headers with checksums to the end of database files for extra robust
  storage and faster storage.

View Server
^^^^^^^^^^^

* Added native Erlang views for high-performance applications.
