.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
.. use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
.. the License at
..
..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.


.. _release/1.1.x:

1.1.x Branch
============

.. contents::
   :depth: 1
   :local:


.. _release/1.1.2:

Version 1.1.2
-------------

Build System
^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Don't `ln` the `couchjs` install target on Windows
* Remove ICU version dependency on Windows.
* Improve SpiderMonkey version detection.

HTTP Interface
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* ETag of attachment changes only when the attachment changes, not
  the document.
* Fix retrieval of headers larger than 4k.
* Allow OPTIONS HTTP method for list requests.
* Don't attempt to encode invalid json.

Log System
^^^^^^^^^^

* Improvements to log messages for file-related errors.

Replicator
^^^^^^^^^^

 * Fix pull replication of documents with many revisions.
 * Fix replication from an HTTP source to an HTTP target.

Security
^^^^^^^^

* Fixed CVE-2012-5641: Apache CouchDB Information disclosure via unescaped
  backslashes in URLs on Windows
* Fixed CVE-2012-5649: Apache CouchDB JSONP arbitrary code execution with
  Adobe Flash
* Fixed CVE-2012-5650: Apache CouchDB DOM based Cross-Site Scripting via Futon
  UI

View Server
^^^^^^^^^^^

* Avoid invalidating view indexes when running out of file descriptors.


.. _release/1.1.1:

Version 1.1.1
-------------

* Support SpiderMonkey 1.8.5
* Add configurable maximum to the number of bytes returned by _log.
* Allow CommonJS modules to be an empty string.
* Bump minimum Erlang version to R13B02.
* Do not run deleted validate_doc_update functions.
* ETags for views include current sequence if include_docs=true.
* Fix bug where duplicates can appear in _changes feed.
* Fix bug where update handlers break after conflict resolution.
* Fix bug with _replicator where include "filter" could crash couch.
* Fix crashes when compacting large views.
* Fix file descriptor leak in _log
* Fix missing revisions in _changes?style=all_docs.
* Improve handling of compaction at max_dbs_open limit.
* JSONP responses now send "text/javascript" for Content-Type.
* Link to ICU 4.2 on Windows.
* Permit forward slashes in path to update functions.
* Reap couchjs processes that hit reduce_overflow error.
* Status code can be specified in update handlers.
* Support provides() in show functions.
* _view_cleanup when ddoc has no views now removes all index files.
* max_replication_retry_count now supports "infinity".
* Fix replication crash when source database has a document with empty ID.
* Fix deadlock when assigning couchjs processes to serve requests.
* Fixes to the document multipart PUT API.
* Fixes regarding file descriptor leaks for databases with views.


.. _release/1.1.0:

Version 1.1.0
-------------

.. note:: All CHANGES for 1.0.2 and 1.0.3 also apply to 1.1.0.

Externals
^^^^^^^^^

* Added OS Process module to manage daemons outside of CouchDB.
* Added HTTP Proxy handler for more scalable externals.

Futon
^^^^^

* Added a "change password"-feature to Futon.

HTTP Interface
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Native SSL support.
* Added support for HTTP range requests for attachments.
* Added built-in filters for `_changes`: `_doc_ids` and `_design`.
* Added configuration option for TCP_NODELAY aka "Nagle".
* Allow POSTing arguments to `_changes`.
* Allow `keys` parameter for GET requests to views.
* Allow wildcards in vhosts definitions.
* More granular ETag support for views.
* More flexible URL rewriter.
* Added support for recognizing "Q values" and media parameters in
  HTTP Accept headers.
* Validate doc ids that come from a PUT to a URL.

Replicator
^^^^^^^^^^

* Added `_replicator` database to manage replications.
* Fixed issues when an endpoint is a remote database accessible via SSL.
* Added support for continuous by-doc-IDs replication.
* Fix issue where revision info was omitted when replicating attachments.
* Integrity of attachment replication is now verified by MD5.

Storage System
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Multiple micro-optimizations when reading data.

URL Rewriter & Vhosts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Fix for variable substituion

View Server
^^^^^^^^^^^

* Added CommonJS support to map functions.
* Added `stale=update_after` query option that triggers a view update after
  returning a `stale=ok` response.
* Warn about empty result caused by `startkey` and `endkey` limiting.
* Built-in reduce function `_sum` now accepts lists of integers as input.
* Added view query aliases start_key, end_key, start_key_doc_id and
  end_key_doc_id.
